Rework Drupal 9 Migration Guide (#7235)
pantheon-systems/documentation: source/content/guides/drupal-9/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/07-core.md

---
title: Migrate a Site That Was Created with Build Tools to Drupal 9
subtitle: Update Drupal Core Using Composer
description: 
cms: "Drupal 9"
categories: [develop]
tags: [code, launch, migrate, site, updates]
contributors: [wordsmither]
reviewed: "2021-03-31"
layout: guide
permalink: docs/guides/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/core
anchorid: core
editpath: drupal-9/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/07-core.md
---

1. Use Composer to remove `config_installer` and add new requirements:

   ```bash{outputLines: 3-7,9-11}
   composer require drupal/core-recommended:^9 \
      drupal/core-composer-scaffold:^9 \
      drupal/core-project-message:^9 \
      -W --no-update

   composer require phpunit/phpunit:^9 \
      behat/behat:^3 \
      drupal/drupal-extension:^4 \
      --no-update -W --dev
   ```

> 1. If you have `core-dev` installed, follow below (skip this step if you do not have `core-dev` installed):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have `core-dev` installed, enter the following command (skip this step if you do not have `core-dev` installed):
```

---
title: Migrate a Site That Was Created with Build Tools to Drupal 9
subtitle: Update Drupal Core Using Composer
description: 
cms: "Drupal 9"
categories: [develop]
tags: [code, launch, migrate, site, updates]
contributors: [wordsmither]
reviewed: "2021-03-31"
layout: guide
permalink: docs/guides/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/core
anchorid: core
editpath: drupal-9/drupal-9-hosted-createbt/07-core.md
---

> 1. Temporarily add write access to protected files and directories:

Author: removed

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   chmod 777 web/sites/default
   find web/sites/default -name "*settings.php" -exec chmod 777 {} \;
   find web/sites/default -name "*services.yml" -exec chmod 777 {} \;
   ```

> 1. Use Composer to remove `config_installer` and add new requirements:

Author: removed

   ```bash{outputLines: 3-7,9-11}
   composer remove drupal/config_installer --no-update
   composer require drupal/core-recommended:^9 \
      drupal/core-composer-scaffold:^9 \
      drupal/core-project-message:^9 \

>       drush/drush:^10 \

Author: removed

      -W --no-update

   composer require phpunit/phpunit:^9 \
      behat/behat:^3 \
      drupal/drupal-extension:^4 \
      --no-update -W --dev
   ```

1. If you have `core-dev` installed, follow below (skip this step if you do not have `core-dev` installed):

   ```bash{outputLines: 2}
   composer require drupal/core-dev:^9 \
      --dev -W --no-update
   ```

1. If the **Upgrade Status** under **Reports** displays obsolete modules, update the modules using the `--no-update -W` switch to instruct Composer to check for all dependencies together rather than for each module. Replace `OBSOLETE-MODULE-NAME` in this example with the module to update:

   ```bash{outputLines: 2}

>    composer require drupal/OBSOLETE-MODULE-NAME:^9 \

Reviewer 2: You're now on Drupal 9. This work should have been done in the previous step when it was suggested to update the modules as upgrade status says. If you get to this point with obsolete modules, your site is probably broken and you won't be able to see upgrade status report. I'd delete this instruction

Author: removed

      --dev -W --no-update
   ```

   Repeat this step for each obsolete module in the project.

> 1. When you're done updating modules, run `composer update`:

Reviewer 2: If the previous instruction gets deleted, this line should be rephrased a bit

   ```bash{promptUser: user}
   composer update -W --optimize-autoloader --prefer-dist
   ```

>    If this command returns an error, check the output for any incompatible modules or themes and check the **Upgrade Status** under **Reports** in the integration environment.

Reviewer 2: flagging integration environment again

Author: changed to multidev

> 1. Next, edit `composer.json` and add `--no-dev` from the `scripts` section, to exclude the dev dependencies when the build is deployed to production.

Reviewer 2: This was done in the previous step

Author: removed entire bullet

   ```json:title=composer.json
     "scripts": {
       "build-assets": [
         "@prepare-for-pantheon",
         "composer install --optimize-autoloader --no-dev" //highlight-line
       ],
   ```

1. Commit the changes and push them to the development environment:

   ```bash{promptUser: user}

>    git add composer.json composer.lock pantheon.yml

Reviewer 2: I don't think we modified pantheon.yml since the last commit. That file could be removed from here

Author: removed
